+++
title = "Local Ancestry Inference in Non-Model Organisms"
date = 2019-05-30T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list
authors = ["Michael Salter-Townshend", "Simon R. Myers"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "47th European Mathematical Genetics Meeting"
#publication_short = "In "

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Recent advances have allowed accurate inference of the timings of and contributors to admixture events (wherein genetically diverged populations come together) from SNP data. It has been shown that statistical methods based on Hidden Markov Models can accurately assign chromosomal segments of the admixed individuals to unseen ancestral populations, and simultaneously infer how these ancestral populations relate to observed modern populations. This has been accomplished in the context of high quality, phased haplotype data on many individuals, sampled from both the admixed target population and multiple extant reference populations. The most recent contributions in this area do not need to assume prior knowledge of the relationship between the unseen ancestral mixing groups and the reference panels. However, such methods have thus far not been extended to non-model organisms. Researchers in this area are increasingly reliant on low-coverage whole-genome sequencing data, for which genotypes are not called and a high rate of SNP missingness occurs. Versions of imputation and phasing algorithms do exist that allow for the replacement of called genotypes with genotype likelihoods, allowing for application to such data. We propose and outline an extension to existing models for multiway admixture that accounts for uncertainty in the genotypes and allows for a large rate of missing data. We demonstrate and assess the method by downsampling high coverage data. The approach will be especially useful in conservation genetics studies."
abstract_short = "We explore the impact of missingness, low coverage, and unavailability of reference haplotypes on local ancestry estimation."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
featured = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["statgen"]

# Links (optional).
#url_pdf = "#"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
links = [{name = "DOI", url = "https://doi.org/10.1159/000499459"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false 

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

